---
layout: post
title:  "How did I get here?"
date:   2015-02-10 21:35:07
summary: "My roundabout journey to becoming a Ruby on Rails developer"
---
In all honesty, I haven't asked myself this question once since I started class
at the Turing School of Software and Design in late October, 2014. My path to
becoming a Ruby on Rails developer started when I was working at a Wealth
Management firm here in Denver. I graduated from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill with an undergraduate business degree and job in hand.
If you had told me I would be in a school for Software Design within a year and
a half, I wouldn't have believed it, but would have been ecstatic. I've always been
enamored with developers and the work they do ever since I worked with
technology startups for the Blackstone Entrepreneurs Network while in school.
I've always dreamed of making the leap into Software Development, but always
thought that it was unattainable without a computer science degree.

This all changed when I moved to Denver and heard stories that ran the gamut
from people who changed to programming midway through their careers to people
who had never attended college and taught themselves to program. With this
newfound inspiration I began gobbling up any resources I could get my hands on.
I started with Codecademy's HTML and CSS courses. Then through the guidance of a
fellow UNC grad who made the leap into Ruby on Rails, I started Michael Hartl's
online course for Rails. Needless to say I was a little overwhelmed learning on
my own, but felt comfortable with learning through the tutorial. It didn't take
long before I would come home from work and spend the rest of my waking hours
building Ruby on Rails applications to the dismay of my girlfriend.

I loved seeing the fruits of my labor live on the internet even if they were just toy
applications. As I began to exhaust the online resources I was aware of (I now
know they are endless), I began going to tech meetups to see if I could get my
hands on more knowledge. Even at this point, I wasn't sure if this would lead to
a career change, but I knew there was something to the joy I was experiencing
through developing in my spare time. What I found at these meetups was not
resources in the true sense of the word, I quickly learned what a great
community we have here in Denver. I found veteran developers that were willing
to take time out of their day to help me with something that I had been stuck on
for days, and even other fledgling newbies that were on the same journey as
myself.

It was through this community that I learned about the many bootcamps and
schools that turned people like me looking for a change into Software
Developers. One meetup in particular opened my eyes to the fact that I could
actually turn this into a career, was seeing Jeff Casimir and some of his alumni
tell their stories. I knew then and there that I was going to apply to Turing.
Luckily I heard back pretty quickly, and in the course of a few months I went
from a Research Analyst to a full time student in Software Development.

I have come a long way since starting class back in October and I have never
worked so hard and accomplished so much. Two of the most important lessons I
have learned though, are that this has been the best career decision for me, and
nearly anyone with sheer passion can become a developer. So I hope this blog can
be an inspiration for anyone that is toying with the idea of becomming a
full-time Software Developer.
